# Value-at-Risk Analysis of an Optimized Portfolio consisting of Human Capital Management Company Stocks
## Abstract

Human Capital Management (HCM) companies have been growing significantly in the last years due to high demand in the market. CDAY is the latest index in the market which will soon be followed by PYCR (Paycor HCM). The Value-at-Risk of fairly new stock indexes can be highly overestimated or underestimated from its historical values. We do not have enough data to make estimate the VaR. We study the historical VaR, parametric VaR and modified VaR of an optimized portfolio containing the 8 HCM companies. The optimized portfolio is then simulated for the next 30 days through 10,000 trials to compare the historical estimated VaR and simulated VaR. It is observed that the historical VaR is higher than the simulated VaR. This significant difference is explained by the lack of data. We observe that our 1-Day VaR for the portfolio for the multivariate normal distribution (MVT) and the GARCH (1,1) model is very close to the Gaussian parametric VaR that was estimated from the historical data. Estimating the 30th day VaR using the 1-Day VaR_hist and 1-Day VaR<sub>modi</sub> was considerably higher simulated 30th day VaR for both MVN and GARCH (1,1).

## Introduction
Human Capital Management (HCM) is at the core of every company. Talent acquisition, workforce management and optimization, time and attendance, benefits administration, data intelligence, payroll, self-service, etc. are among the few tasks that an organization must handle to ensure day-to-day operation. The mentioned operations are not restricted to only one department; they are performed throughout a company which testifies the complexity of HCM nowadays. There exists many standalone software and/or hardware that can handle part of HCM, however, integration among multiple system is not always easy and at times unstable (specially on larger scales). The need for centralized networks and data centres are now an asset for companies to function efficiently. Thus, the demands and integration of HCM Software as a Service (SaaS) have increased substantially in the last decades whether for small, medium or larger organizations. With increased internet security, more and more companies have pivoted to cloud computing and storing most of their organizations’ information virtually. As a result, the stock value of HCM SaaS companies has increased significantly after their initial public offering.
HCM SaaS have major advantages over traditional methods. They allow company operations to be conducted virtually which drastically reduce infrastructure cost. The integrated system makes organizations much more efficient as they only need to maintain one system. Data is shared among departments to ensure quality and compliant operations. Moreover, they allow ease of scalability as company undergoes rapid changes.
Most HCM products operate on a subscription basis, that is, after their implementation within a company there is a constant cash flow based for the services being provided by HCM SaaS. It is often based on the number of employees that is using the product. The business model ensures that there is a constant revenue. The greater the number of employees using the system; the greater the cash flow. The subscription fee is the major source of revenue for most HCM products. It ensures the financial stability of the company. Hence, generally the size of a company implementing a new HCM SaaS is a potential growth for them; driving the stock value. Additionally, such partnership greatly increases the visibility of the product across the market which is a determining factor now. 
HCM companies such SAP, Oracle Corporation and ADP Management services are the among the oldest HCM public companies. The reasons for choosing a specific product to use depends on their different abilities and services they provide. For example, SAP delivers core HR and payroll data, time and attendance management, recruiting and onboarding; however, with the amount of services provided; the subscription fee tends to be relatively high and discouraging for small and medium enterprises.
We study the Value at Risk (VaR) of investing of an optimized portfolio consisting of 8 HCM companies (SAP, ORCL, WDAY, CDAY, CSOD, ADP, PCTY, PAYC) which includes a fairly new index CDAY – Ceridian HCM Holding Inc, which went public end of April, 2018. We focus our study from the day CDAY went live till today to understand its impact on the VaR of the portfolio. They have been performing relatively well on the stock market. We briefly review the performance of the 8 companies on the stock market and build a simple optimized portfolio consisting of all of them. We estimate their current Value-at-Risk and also simulate the portfolio value for the next 30 days using Monte Carlo simulation with Multivariance Normal Distribution and a GARCH process to predict their VaR in the future. Our goal is to see how bad the portfolio will be performing in a month to be able to advise whether this portfolio is potentially very risky in the next 30 days; taking into consideration that we are including a fairly new index, CDAY, from the optimization.

## Market Analysis of HCM Companies
In order to understand the performance of HCM companies stock value, we study their stock prices in the last decade and beyond. We consider the index of 8 HCM companies; the data is retrieved for the companies from Yahoo Finance and displayed in Figure 1.